Update a File Through a Python Algorithm
Project Description
In my organization, access to restricted digital content is managed through an allow list stored in a file named allow_list.txt, which contains approved IP addresses. 
To maintain this list, IP addresses that should no longer have access are stored in a separate remove list. I developed a Python algorithm to automate the process of updating the allow list
by removing any IP addresses found in the remove list.

Step 1: Open the Allow List File
To begin the process, I assigned the file name as a string to a variable called import_file.
Using the with statement and the open() function in read mode ("r"), I opened the allow_list.txt file. The with statement ensures that the file is properly closed after its contents are read, 
and the as keyword stores the file object in a variable named file.


import_file = "allow_list.txt"
with open(import_file, "r") as file:
Step 2: Read File Contents
Inside the with block, I used the .read() method to read the full contents of the file and store them as a single string. This string was assigned to a variable named ip_addresses.


    ip_addresses = file.read()
Step 3: Convert String to a List
To easily manipulate the individual IP addresses, I used the .split() method to convert the string into a list. Since the addresses were separated by whitespace, 
.split() naturally created a list of IPs.


ip_addresses = ip_addresses.split()
Step 4: Iterate Through the Remove List
I created a for loop to iterate over each IP address in the remove_list. This loop checks whether each element exists in the ip_addresses list.


for element in remove_list:
Step 5: Remove IPs from the Allow List
Within the loop, I added a condition to verify that the element exists in the ip_addresses list before attempting to remove it. This prevents errors from trying to 
remove non-existent items.


    if element in ip_addresses:
        ip_addresses.remove(element)
Step 6: Update the File with Revised IP List
After cleaning the list, I converted it back into a string using the .join() method, with each IP address placed on a new line. Then, I used another with block and opened 
the file in write mode ("w") to overwrite the existing contents with the updated list.


ip_addresses = "\n".join(ip_addresses)

with open(import_file, "w") as file:
    file.write(ip_addresses)
Summary
This algorithm efficiently manages access control by automatically removing unauthorized IP addresses from the allow_list.txt file. The steps included:

Reading the existing allow list file.

Converting the data to a manageable list format.

Iterating through a remove_list to identify and eliminate revoked IPs.

Writing the cleaned list back to the file using Python's built-in file handling methods.

This solution helps streamline system administration and ensures that only authorized users retain access to sensitive resources.

